---
title: "Choice and Cost"
date: 2023-11-10T02:48:46-05:00
draft: true
tags: [Choice, Cost, Essay]
---

> This is one of the few articles that are entirely in English.


## Choice
Reflecting on the past 23 years, it seems like there haven't been any very important decisions. Perhaps choosing a university and a major after the college entrance examination was an important choice, and then after that, coming to the United States for graduate school following my undergraduate degree.

Actually, I don't regret any of the choices I've made in the past. However, I often find myself imagining what wonderful stories might have unfolded if I had made different choices. For example, I imagine if I hadn't chosen to major in computer science—suppose I had studied business instead—I might not have been very interested, and attending classes would have been just about completing my studies and graduating successfully. Fortunately, I chose the computer science major that I like most. During the four years of university, I learned a lot of interesting technologies and met a bunch of great friends. It seems we were all enthusiastic about these topics.

In the final year before graduation, I successfully joined a foreign enterprise with friends. It was from that time, having something to compare to, that I began to view Chinese internet companies differently. During my internship period, it coincided with the COVID-19 pandemic, when most companies allowed employees to work remotely. However, after the situation improved, they would mandatorily switch back to requiring office attendance. Yet the foreign enterprise I was with didn't have such a regulation; as long as you completed your work, they allowed work from home. Additionally, we didn't have a punch-in system; instead, you only needed to log your working hours weekly, and there were many humane holiday policies, such as a paid sick day once a month, among others.

Overall, I really like this kind of work model and company culture. The salary provided by the company isn't very high, but it's not too low either; for such a free working style, it's pretty good. However, I've increasingly realized that I might become dependent on this way of working, just getting by here, and it seems to be the same for the upcoming years, even decades. My life appears to have a predictable end in sight, somewhat similar to the job of a Chinese civil servant. It's as if from the first day I joined the company, I could calculate how much salary I would earn until I retire. This clearly isn't the life I want, so I chose to go to the United States alone to continue my graduate studies and am determined to stay in this free country.

## Cost
Cost, which can also be referred to as the price of each choice, or the impact it brings. For instance, after graduating from high school and choosing to major in computer science, it meant that I had to invest a lot of time into studying the relevant knowledge, which seemed an indispensable part. The choice to leave a foreign enterprise to pursue graduate studies in the United States seems to come at a higher cost. Aside from the preparations before departure, such as learning TOEFL and applying to schools, the greater costs come after arrival. I needed to adapt quickly to the lifestyle of this country; despite being a free nation that allows every person living here to do many things, there are also some constraints and a specific culture; I needed to get used to and proficiently use a completely new language for communication with those around me, which could be a novel experience considering the 23 years I spent speaking Mandarin in mainland China; I needed to spend a lot of time adapting to the new teaching methods, where professors seem less concerned about whether you attend every class but more focused on whether you've learned the material, as reflected in your performance in assignments and exams. Actually, these are all things that can be achieved with effort. The most crucial part is contemplating how to stay in this country in the future, simply put, finding a job and having the good fortune to be selected for a visa. However, finding a job seems very easy to do; two years ago, CS appeared to be a major with a 100% job placement rate, but today, everything seems to have changed. With the impact of the pandemic, a large portion of internet companies have already undergone several rounds of layoffs, and the number of job openings has started to decrease, yet the number of people coming to the United States looking for jobs seems to increase rather than decrease. The only standard that can help you successfully stay here is to be more outstanding than most people. The U.S. work visa, H1B, has a standard when companies sponsor employees — that such talent cannot be found among U.S. citizens. Therefore, it seems that we international students who wish to continue living in this country have no choice but to devote even more time to studying.

